---
title: Imports
tags: python, haskell, swift, programming-languages, programming-philosophy, ui, haskell-mn, web-ring, imports
description: A comparison of imports in Python, Haskell, and Swift
---

At the last [HaskellMN](http://www.haskell.mn) meetup, [Danny
Gratzer](http://jozefg.bitbucket.org/) had a question about Python
imports. Specifically, he wanted to import and re-export a
constant. Here's how it is done in Python:

~~~ Python
# a.py:
some_constant = 3.14

# b.py:
from a import some_constant

# c.py:
from b import some_constant
~~~

**Edit:** He had a [follow-up question](/posts/2014-08-06-imports-continued.html).

This reminded me that I wanted to compare the import styles of Python,
Haskell, and Swift. Their imports are similar, though there are a few
differences to keep in mind.

## Python

Python has a few [import
styles](https://docs.python.org/2/reference/simple_stmts.html#import):

~~~ Python
import module1
from module2 import a, b, c
from module3 import *
~~~

The first loads `module1` and brings it into scope. The second loads
objects `a`, `b`, and `c` from `module2` and brings them into
scope. The third loads every object from `module3` and brings them into
scope.

The first is useful for short names (`os`, `sys`), but with module
hierarchies it can be annoying. The second is my preferred style, as
it forces you to name what will be used. The third is frowned upon, as
you can accidentally overwrite variables if a module you import later
provides an object with the same name as one you import
earlier. Additionally, providing a list of what is going to be used in
the file is useful from a documentation standpoint. ["Explicit is
better than implicit."](http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/)

Python modules are isomorphic to files. A module is either a file with
that name or a folder with an `__init__.py` file in it[^1]. Submodules can
be placed in the folder.

[^1]: A folder with an `__init__.py` is technically a
[package](https://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/modules.html#packages).


Python imports can be qualified using `as`:

~~~ Python
from module import a as b
~~~

This imports `a` from `module`, but gives it the name `b` in scope.

Python imports can also happen anywhere in a file, even inside
functions. This is a double-edged sword, useful for both making and
breaking circular dependencies.


## Haskell

Haskell, too, has a few [import
styles](http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Import).

~~~ Haskell
import qualified Module1
import Module2 (a, b, c)
import Module3
~~~

The first loads `Module1` and brings it into scope. The second loads
objects `a`, `b`, and `c` from `Module2` and brings them into
scope. The third loads every (exported) object from `Module3` and
brings them into scope.

These correspond loosely to the three Python examples, however, I put
them in the roughly similar semantic order, rather than by ordering
them by their similar syntax. Again, I prefer the middle one for
similar reasons.

There is also a `hiding` option, which is the inverse of of the second option
option above:

~~~ Haskell
import Module hiding (a, b, c)
~~~

Haskell modules are made explicit within files:

~~~ Haskell
module Module where
    ...
~~~

The convention is to put them in the corresponding file structure, though
this is not enforced programmatically.

Unlike Python imports, Haskell imports need to be at the top of a
file, optionally following a module declaration.

Haskell provides the `as` option, too, though only for module-level
imports:

~~~ Haskell
import Module as M
import qualified Module as M
~~~

However, the first example here also imports everything from `Module`
in addition to qualifying the module-level import as `M`.


This would import everything from `Module` *except* `a`, `b`, and `c`.


## Swift

[Swift
imports](https://developer.apple.com/library/prerelease/ios/documentation/Swift/Conceptual/Swift_Programming_Language/Declarations.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH34-XID_499)
are not as diverse. They only provide equivalents for the second and
third examples from above:

~~~ Python
import var module2.a
import module3
~~~

The first loads `module2` and brings it into scope.  The second loads
objects `a` from `module3` and brings it into scope.  There doesn't
seem to be an equivalent to the `module1` example from Python and
Haskell.

Compared to the `module2` examples from Python and Haskell, the
example here provides two additional constraints. First, the import
kind needs to be specified. In the example I gave here the import kind
is `var`, though it could also be `typealias`, `struct`, `class`,
`enum`, `protocol`, or `func`. The other constraint is each import
from a module would need to be in its own line. A more precise
equivalent to the Python and Haskell examples for would be:

~~~ Python
import var module.a
import var module.b
import var module.c
~~~

This is a little excessive. I think a better syntax would be something
like one of these:

~~~ Python
from module import var a, var b, var c
import module (var a, var b, var c)
~~~

Like Python, Swift imports
[can](https://developer.apple.com/swift/blog/?id=7) be placed anywhere
within a file.


## The morality of import styles

Importing a module name is fine, though it can make some code hard to
read due to the repetitive and verbose nature of including the module
name for each access into the module.

Importing specific items from a module is my preferred import style,
except when it isn't idiomatic (e.g. `import sys` in Python).

Importing everything from a module without naming each item is frowned
upon because it doesn't convey everything to readers of the code. Code
readers like to be able to see what is in scope in order to get a feel
for what kind of code will be read in a file.

Additionally, if multiple modules define items with the same name, it
is possible to overwrite imports implicitly, without notifying the
reader:

~~~ Python
# a.py:
x = 1

# b.py:
x = 2

# c.py:
from a import *
from b import *
print(x)
~~~

These suggestions are reflected in Python's [PEP
8](http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#imports) and the
HaskellWiki page on ["Import[ing] modules
properly"](http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Import_modules_properly). These
discuss the merits of the various import styles, and they arrive at
similar conclusions, though the HaskellWiki page is less axiomatic and
provides more rationale for the various decisions. There is not yet a
similar document for Swift, though the official blog post on [Files
and Initialization](https://developer.apple.com/swift/blog/?id=7)
mentions that you "can even import modules at the bottom of the file
(although that is not recommended Swift style."
